Time Escape
Authors: Ethan Chang, Taya Williams
Revision: 5/23/2021

Introduction: 

TimeEscape is a 2D platformer game that involves using time travel to solve various complicated puzzles. We created this game as a form of entertainment and to tell a story through a game. 
The story is about a protagonist whose friend was murdered by a time traveler, but the murder was called off as a suicide. At the crime scene, the mc finds a prototype time travel device, and the mc uses it to avenge his/her friend. To go back in time, the time travel device places him in a room where he/she has to get to the time travel gate. As the mc traverses deeper and deeper into the past, the puzzles get much harder.
The goal of the game is to complete all the puzzles and to “escape the present” to the past to save the mc's friend. For the rules of the game, the mc must collect time travel energy in order to create a time travel set point to time travel back to that point.
This program is directed towards casual gamers and people who want to have a chill gaming experience while solving puzzles and experiencing a story through the game.

Instructions:
‘a’ and ‘d’ - move left and right respectively
‘w’ or space - jump
‘f’ - set a time travel set point
‘t’ - time travel to the set point
Escape or clicking on the pause menu button on the top-left corner of the window to get the pause menu
Do actions need to be taken in a certain order?
Time travel will only activate if there’s a set point.
There can only be one set point at a time with the most recent set point overriding previous ones.


Must-have Features:
Time travel
using time travel to solve various puzzles (ex. moving a box in a current timeline to later go back in time and use that box)
When time traveling, the main character can interact with “past” characters
Physics
Every basic platformer game needs physics for the game to work, like gravity and collisions between objects so that the player can interact with the world.
Timer/Clock
measure when a character in a previous timeline moves.
Puzzles
To make the game engaging, we will have puzzles that specifically require the player to use time travel.
GUI

Want-to-have Features:
Time travel “energy”
The player can only create a time set point after picking up time travel energy, with a maximum of 5. This will make the puzzles in the game more complicated.
Coins/Easter Eggs
having hidden objects and side goals(ex: coins scattered around the puzzles; other objects hidden around levels)
Enemies/Obstacles
objects that could affect the character and make it more difficult to complete a puzzle
Art and sprites for the game
A fully flushed out level with a puzzle.
Other special abilities like power ups to make the puzzles more challenging.

Stretch Features:
 Complete levels
It will probably take some time to complete the time travel aspect of the game and getting it to work, so creating multiple levels will take too much time. We will probably only make a test world and maybe a few levels.
Story is not essential to the purpose of the project and it’s a part of the level design, so this will also probably not be implemented.
Music and sound effects


Class List:
Main class
GUI classes
DrawingSurface
Main Menu
Pause Menu
Screens
GameBoard
Sprite classes
Character
TimeCharacter
Wall
Box

Credits:
Taya Williams
Sprite Classes
Physics
TimeTravel algorithm
Ethan Chang
Drawing Surface
Menus
TimeTravel algorithm

